# From v0.8.X to v1.X

This is a brief guide on migrating from Pode.Web v0.8.X to v1.X.

In Pode.Web v1.X all elements are now rendered client-side using JavaScript, rather than server-side using `.pode` view files. There are still some base view files for HTML boilerplate, but everything else has been migrated. This will help take some load away from the server, and allow element rendering to be more dynamic and "on-the-fly". (ie: a table can now contain any element, not just 5 randomly pre-selected elements).

## Actions

### Outputs

In Pode.Web v1.X to render a new element(s) on your page you can just call the relevant `New-PodeWebX` function. This now means the following `Out-PodeWebX` functions are redundant:

  * `Out-PodeWebTable`
  * `Out-PodeWebChart`
  * `Out-PodeWebTextbox`
  * `Out-PodeWebBreadcrumb`

The `New-PodeWebX` functions for each have been updated so you can more easily switch from one to the other - the only new requirement is that a `-Name` or `-Id` is required, and you'll also need to pipe the function into a new `Out-PodeElement` function. This new latter function is so that Pode.Web can more appropriately append the element to the page - you can also tweak the appending rule to append the element before the "sender".

For example, to output an ad-hoc Table to show some processes via a Form would be:

```powershell
$form = New-PodeWebForm -Name 'Search Processes' -AsCard -ScriptBlock {
    Get-Process -Name $WebEvent.Data.Name -ErrorAction Ignore |
        Select-Object Name, ID, WorkingSet, CPU |
        New-PodeWebTable -Name 'Output' |
        Out-PodeWebElement
} -Content @(
    New-PodeWebTextbox -Name 'Name'
)
```

Or the same for a Chart:

```powershell
$form = New-PodeWebForm -Name 'Top X Processes' -AsCard -ScriptBlock {
    Get-Process |
        Sort-Object -Property CPU -Descending |
        Select-Object -First $WebEvent.Data.Amount |
        ConvertTo-PodeWebChartData -LabelProperty ProcessName -DatasetProperty CPU |
        New-PodeWebChart -Name 'Output' -Type Line |
        Out-PodeWebElement
} -Content @(
    New-PodeWebTextbox -Name 'Amount'
)
```

Or for a Textbox:

```powershell
$form = New-PodeWebForm -Name 'Search Processes' -AsCard -ScriptBlock {
    $processes = Get-Process -Name $WebEvent.Data.Name -ErrorAction Ignore |
        Select-Object Name, ID, WorkingSet, CPU

    $processes |
        New-PodeWebTextbox -Name 'Output' -Multiline -Preformat -AsJson -Size ((6 * $processes.Length) + 2) |
        Out-PodeWebElement
} -Content @(
    New-PodeWebTextbox -Name 'Name'
)
```

### Validation

Any references to `Out-PodeWebValidation` should be updated to `Show-PodeWebValidation` - no other changes are needed, just a function rename.

### Tabs

Any references to `Move-PodeWebTab` should be updated to `Move-PodeWebTabs`. This will still do the same logic of moving a Tabs element to the next Tab, but there's now a new `-Direction` parameter to also cycle to the previous Tab.

### Classes

The `Add-PodeWebComponentClass` and `Remove-PodeWebComponentClass` action functions have been renamed to `Add-PodeWebClass` and `Remove-PodeWebClass` respectively.

The `-Class` parameter on both has also been renamed to `-Value`.

### Styles

The `Set-PodeWebComponentStyle` and `Remove-PodeWebComponentStyle` action functions have been renamed to `Add-PodeWebStyle` and `Remove-PodeWebStyle` respectively.

The `-Property` parameter on both has also been renamed to `-Key`.

## NoForm and NoLabels

In Pode.Web v1.X the new element rendering is more aware if an input element is being rendered within a Form, or not. Because of this the `-NoForm` and `-NoLabels` parameters are now all redundant, and have been removed from the following functions:

* `New-PodeWebTextbox`
* `New-PodeWebFileUpload`
* `New-PodeWebCheckbox`
* `New-PodeWebRadio`
* `New-PodeWebSelect`
* `New-PodeWebRange`
* `New-PodeWebCredential`
* `New-PodeWebDateTime`
* `New-PodeWebMinMax`

## Elements and Layouts

All elements that can contain other elements, like a Paragraph; Form; or Tab, for example, can now contain any type - since Layouts/Elements are now all one. The only exception is elements that have a specific parent/child relation, such as Accordions and Bellows.

Because of this change, functions that had `-Layouts` or `-Elements` parameters have been renamed to `-Content`:

* `New-PodeWebParagraph`
* `New-PodeWebTab`
* `Add-PodeWebPage`

## Classes and Styles

All element functions have had the `-CssClass` and `-CssStyle` parameters removed. Instead, you can now pipe the element into either `Add-PodeWebClass` or `Add-PodeWebStyle`:

```powershell
# add a class to an element
New-PodeWebTextbox -Name 'Example' |
    Add-PodeWebClass -Value 'my-custom-textbox'

# add a style to an element
New-PodeWebTextbox -Name 'Example' |
    Add-PodeWebStyle -Key 'color' -Value 'yellow'
```

## Component to Element

Originally there was a differentiation between Layouts and Elements in Pode.Web, but this is now being dropped and everything is just an "Element". Because of this, the "Component" catch-all name is also being dropped, which means the following action functions are being renamed:

| From | To |
| ---- | -- |
| `Hide-PodeWebComponent` | `Hide-PodeWebElement` |
| `Show-PodeWebComponent` | `Show-PodeWebElement` |
| `Add-PodeWebComponentClass` | `Add-PodeWebClass` |
| `Remove-PodeWebComponentClass` | `Remove-PodeWebClass` |
| `Set-PodeWebComponentStyle` | `Add-PodeWebStyle` |
| `Remove-PodeWebComponentStyle` | `Remove-PodeWebStyle` |

The parameters of these functions remain unchanged.

### Events

The `-Component` parameter on `Register-PodeWebEvent` and `Register-PodeWebMediaEvent` has also been renamed to `-Element`. This is usually passed via piped input so shouldn't affect anyone too much.

## ReadOnly and Disabled

In some places the ReadOnly/Disabled parameters were being used as if they were the same thing - these have been split out into two different parameters. Because of this split, the `-ReadOnly` parameter on `New-PodeWebSelect` is now `-Disabled`, and its counterpart of `Update-PodeWebSelect` has had its `-ReadOnlyState` parameter renamed to `-DisabledState`.

## Icons

### Login Page

This was already deprecated previously in in v0.X release, but: the old `-Icon` and `-IconUrl` aliases, for `-Logo` and `-LogoUrl` respectively, have now been removed on `Set-PodeWebLoginPage`.

### Notifications

The `-Icon` parameter on `Show-PodeWebNotification` has been renamed to `-IconUrl` - to signify that it's not a Material Design Icon, but instead a URL path to an image file.

### Comments

The `-Icon` parameter on `New-PodeWebComment` has been renamed to `-AvatarUrl` - to signify that it's not a Material Design Icon, but instead a URL path to an image file.

## Home Page

In Pode.Web v1.X it is possible to set custom paths on `Add-PodeWebPage`. Because of this, the `Set-PodeWebHomePage` function has been removed, as you can now use `Add-PodeWebPage` to create a page at the root path via `-Path '/'`. This also means you could have a Home Page at any custom path you require.

The Home Page in Pode.Web is still a "special" kind of system page - used by Login page redirects and the header icon. Therefore, if you create a Home Page using `Add-PodeWebPage` it's recommended to flag it as such by supplying the new `-HomePage` switch.

For example, if currently have a `Set-PodeWebHomePage` setup similar to the below:

```powershell
Set-PodeWebHomePage -Content $section -Title 'Awesome Homepage'
```

You can do the same setup now with `Add-PodeWebPage`:

```powershell
Add-PodeWebPage -Name 'Home' -Path '/' -Content $section -Title 'Awesome Homepage' -HomePage
```

In principle, all of the parameters on `Set-PodeWebHomePage` should map over 1-to-1 on `Add-PodeWebPage`, but you'll need to additionally supply `-Name 'Home' -Path '/' -HomePage` to `Add-PodeWebPage` as well.

The quickest way for most implementations will be to replace all occurrences of `Set-PodeWebHomePage` with `Add-PodeWebPage -Name 'Home' -Path '/' -HomePage`.

### Default Root Page

Before v1.X, when `Use-PodeWebTemplates` was called it would set up an empty root (`/`) page for you as the Home Page - meaning you were always forced to have a "Home" page in the sidebar. In v1.X this is no longer the case, a default root Home page is no longer automatically configured.

If you would like to have a default root page still set up, but simply redirect the user to the first available page, you can use the new `-RootRedirect` on `Use-PodeWebTemplates`. This switch will simply set up a behind-the-scenes root for redirection, and will not appear as a "Home" page on your sidebar.

## Pode.Web Static Content

This next change should in theory only apply to Pode.Web itself, however, the static content route that Pode.Web used to load images/etc. has changed from `/pode.web` to `/pode.web-static`. If by chance you are using Pode.Web's static content in any of your pages, this is one change to be aware of in case some content stops loading correctly.
